# LaTeX Template for BMC Mastertheses

This template was created by Christoph Graumann (https://github.com/cgraumann)  based on the great work by Florian Walch [1].

Please refer to the LICENSE file for copyright information - but basically feel free to change and redistribute this template :-)

## Structure

Your main file for the thesis is ```MAIN_Masterthesis.tex```.
You always compile this file in LaTeX, everything else is depends on it.
Put your files in the following folders:

1. ```chapters``` - your content files, should be divided in chapters
2. ```figures``` - your images
3. ```bibliography/library.bib``` - your Bibtex file (e.g. generated by Mendeley)
4. ```glossary``` - glossary and acronyms
5. ```settings``` - some global settings
6. ```pages``` - template pages; _no need to change this_
7. ```logos``` - faculty logos; _no need to change this_

## Settings

The following settings files are used:

* ```commands.tex```
  * __Start here__ by entering your Name, Title, etc.
  * Include some useful shortcuts and commands (like TODO)
* ```packages.tex```
  * This file has all usepackage-directives. Add packages you need here.
* ```settings.tex```
  * Some settings for included packages, like listings and glossary
  
  
## Using TexStudio

TexStudio [2] is the best Latex editor out there. Seriously. No discussion accepted ;-)

To use it with this template, you will have to set up its compilation chain: 

1. Go to _Configure TexStudio_ and select the view _Build_ on the left.
2. Select __PdfLaTeX__ as your _Default Compiler_.
3. Select __Biber__ as your _Default Bibliography Tool_.
4. Click on the wrench icon next to _Build & View_ and edit your list of commands to the following recommendation:
	1. Default Compiler
	2. Default Glossary Tool
	3. Default Bibliography Tool
	4. Default Compiler
	5. Default Compiler

You can also copy-paste the following line into the _Build & View_ field:

```
txs:///compile | txs:///glossary | txs:///bibliography | txs:///compile | txs:///compile | txs:///view
```

When you now open your ```MAIN_Masterthesis.tex``` file, you can simply click on _Build & View_ (the green double-arrow button) and all necessary steps will be done automatically. It also includes three times LaTeX compilation; this is recommended to avoid indexing errors. Always compile your stuff multiple times!

## Additional tricks

* First of all, please use Git to version your thesis. You will thank me for this some time - guaranteed.
* Check out the file ```TeX.gitignore``` at [3] for a standard gitignore file.
* You can set up your TexStudio, to automatically clean the LaTeX compilation files after finishing, to keep your repository clean. I created a script for this, check out [4].
* You can also perform an automatic compression of your PDF file, which is useful for sharing especially. You'll find a script for this as well on [4]. 


## References

[1] https://github.com/fwalch/tum-thesis-latex

[2] http://texstudio.sourceforge.net/

[3] https://github.com/github/gitignore/

[4] https://github.com/cgraumann/LatexUtils